# Summary Information for Recruiters

## Current Project Summaries
- In 2019, I started development of a psychoacoustic receptor field toolkit for receiving the input of my additive synthesizer (or anything else), for end-to-end, formal verification of the psychoacoustic effects of musical techniques, for formalizing music theory, including tuning theory. It is based on [scale-space theory](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Scale_space). I use infinite impulse response (IIR) filters across the whole chain, to be able to have per-sample updates, for better real-time properties. Many data science problems cannot wait for a whole chunk of time to complete, and would enjoy the ability to dynamically update sensors within time scales, as analog biological systems do. The compute resources are also entirely dynamic, and may be focused dynamically on any number of targets. The system is far more efficient than using FFTs, and is even easier to accelerate in hardware than FFTs, since all of the sensors may operate in parallel, without codependent memory. 
- I am developing a tuning app for stringed instruments that is effectively an artificial ear, based on the receptor field toolkit. It is a next-generation tuner capable of phase-accurate tuning across drifting pitches, able to measure entire chords at once. When a string is released, its effective mass lowers as its driving energy decays, for the string moves across smaller distances as the energy decays, lowering tension on the string. This results in a pitch that drifts lower after the release. Current phase-based tuners are unable to address this. I have developed sensor technology that measures relative phase differences, and the phase of beat (interference) cycles, with per-sample, real-time updates. 

## Public Project Summaries
- [code7](https://github.com/legitparty/code7): For coding,  I use my own UTF-8 X11 bitmap font (also works with XQuarts on Mac). It is 7 pixels of a 9 pixel font, for maximum lines on the screen at once, with low DPI screens. Use pixel doubling on high DPI screens. The `setup.sh` script also adds X resources for `xterm` that provide a standard "solarized" color-scheme, for gentle night-time code viewing. 
- [powermate](https://github.com/legitparty/powermate): For coding, I use USB audio mixing wheel-buttons to accelate code navigation. This is a python userland driver I wrote for the generic USB streams of the Griffin PowerMate. I also patched the BSD moused daemon to be able to forward events to the system mouse, by allowing tty-less pipes, allowing it to work in a framebuffer console, without a graphics system. This, combined with the 7 line font, enables rapid code review. I enjoy reading other people's code as much as writing code. To me, it is like listening to music. I see code compositionally, as an expressive device. 
- [EVFILT_RECV,EVFILT_SEND](https://bugs.dragonflybsd.org/issues/3135): After writing an internal article explaining how the OSI model is a network formalization of Hermann Helmholtz's sensory layers, I wrote about how modern technologies, like QUIC and gRPC, are side effects of misdesigned OSI layers in other parts of the tech stack. To demonstrate this theory, I reviewed the code path of my web application server through the kernel and back, finding layering problems. As a result of this, I invented a new kernel event interface which moves blocking logic to the user land side, for user-land task management, while still leveraging all of the kernel TCP stack and socket APIs, such that the kernel socket queues could be treated as proper application queues. This enables true mode-switch-free coroutine task scheduling mixed with I/O, a first for application server platforms. This enabled a single server to do a half million queries per second *in production*, not just in isolated test conditions, but in *mixed I/O conditions*, in a sophisticated production distributed system.
- [jsmn DOM](https://github.com/legitparty/jsmn): I added a full DOM and emitter, with UTF-8 support to the JSMN json parser. [See Changes from fork](https://github.com/zserge/jsmn/compare/master...legitparty:master). My changes include [an elegant UTF-8 and JSON-quote encoder/decoder](https://github.com/legitparty/jsmn/blob/master/utf8.h). Compare with [IBM's ICU implementation](http://icu-project.org/apiref/icu4c/utf8_8h_source.html). In keeping with JSMN's lack of dependency on libc, for embedded usage, I provided both a libc build and a non-libc build with libc shims. My test code, which tests encoding and decoding all code points, compiles to nothing in GCC, because the compiler is able to verify that the code effectively does nothing. 
- [surf-isolated](https://github.com/legitparty/surf-isolated): Over a winter break, I refactored the surf webkit-based browser to support both vertical and horizontal origin isolation. I [wrote to Mozilla.org](https://bugzilla.mozilla.org/show_bug.cgi?id=565965#c33) advocating horizontal isolation techniques based on an identity management system. They are slowly getting there, but I have a proof of concept that I believe shows that it is actually less tedious than other ways of actively managing browser data isolation.
  1. I discovered in practice that sites that require single-sign-on are usually regularly used, so within a week, privacy prompts were no longer needed, and I could browse the web without tracking, but also without friction.
  2. My design is also *continually* preventing cache-based side-channel attacks, due to proper origin isolation of both processes and profiles.
  3. I also found that memory usage and caching was more efficient, with the browser not losing speed over time as caches grew, because caches were limited to origins, and therefore grew slowly, and were rarely ejected too early. 
- [path](https://github.com/legitparty/path): In 2019, I proposed a new method for tuning a piano called PATH (Psycho-Acoustic Temperament Hierarchy) based on self-similar psycho-acoustically rational traversals with theoretically well-bounded side-effects given instrument inharmonicity. It sacrifices 3rds for pure 5ths and octaves, so it is suits music of the Baroque period, before 3rds were emphasized in meantone temperament. The paper also provides new contrapuntal axioms for formal evaluation of the method.
- [tuning](https://github.com/legitparty/tuning): In 2010, I started development of a python additive MIDI synthesizer that uses physical modeling of instruments, for studying tuning and orchestration problems. Recent updates have added some basic stringed instrument modeling.
- [DOM Event Synchronization Canvas](https://web.archive.org/web/20080121000851/tautology.org/software/articles/ajax) In 2005, I wrote an article advocating for iterative DOM platforms years before one existed.
- [benbb](https://web.archive.org/web/20061205011828/http://benbb.org/) In 2004, back in the phpBB days, I made it XHTML 1.1 compliant, with CSS-only responsive styling, before the term responsive design was coined. 
- [WoolWeb](https://web.archive.org/web/20080314163515/http://tautology.org/software/woolweb/): In 2003, I developed a web server with integrated content management that kept track of all time information so that it could fully support conditional HTTP requests. That means that a dymnamic website could support full HTTP caching. This was when upload bandwidth was still expensive compared to compute time. The inspiration was my prior use of `make` and `Makefile`s to manage website updates for a templated website. I wondered why forums didn't just return Not-Modified responses when the latest timestamp didn't change. 

## Historical Private Project Summaries
- I am a co-founder and principal developer of eltoro.com's patented IP matching technology, and bidding platform, which is generating dozens of millions of revenue a year, and was and continues to be profitable within a year of starting. Was rated the 13th fastest growing tech company in the US. I had to come up with a data analysis solution to find legit IP-to-street relationships in questionable data, and onboard it into real-time bidding exchanges. 
- That involved the creation of a 100% custom, actor-based, real-time application server framework written in C. It is the fastest web application server I am aware of due to its ability to integrate into my custom event interface. 
- I developed a C container library based on memory mapped queues, for file-transparent, streaming access to all contained data. This allowed the real-time application server framework to be real-time, nearly jitter-free, because all memory writes avoided malloc(). All data preserved locality of reference, and was streamable across sockets, making it easier to distribute data as an edge node. 
- I designed a GraphQL-like API between the back-end and front-end of an enterprise billing system, years before GraphQL existed (the API supported automatic nested joins, so you cold join multiple tables using nested queries, just like GraphQL).

## Comments
It is my goal to demonstrate that I have a sense for the correct platform for the job, even before precedent exists. It doesn't come right away, from a sense of intuition, but rather comes from a strong sense of intellectual honesty in what really worked and what didn't really work in legacy systems. I don't just tear down legacy systems, but refactor on a large scale, and rewrite in parallel.

High performance server platforms are a passion of mine. I have written dozens of web servers, playing around with various techniques, some for fun,  some for work. I read other people's platform code for fun, like other people read novels. I read  philosophy for fun, and can digest almost anything written, no matter how Analytic or Continental it is, and I can translate it to whoever I am speaking to. Due to my diverse reading, I am really good at finding intellectual common ground between people of diverse experience. 

I find that I work best dealing with resource constraints, and problems with no existing solution. I am really good at finding and elucidating design flaws, and designing refactors or rewrites that resolve them. I enjoy reading other people's designs, approaching new code like reading a new philosopher. I am also able to build new products from only a sales pitch.

### Leadership

My leadership style is to lead by example, and elucidate what others are trying doing, and I have never had a sole management position. It is like a persuasion style, but mainly persuading the good out of the ideas of others. It is the approach I learned from the philosopher Bertrand Russell. I describe it like this: Science is about gaining value, while Philosophy is about avoiding the loss of value. It is difficult for a scientist to produce value when they aren't protected by a philosopher. And that explains the role of Politics in preventing others from gaining value. 

